# Data Directory Documentation

This directory contains the necessary input data. In instances where two files are listed, the first file is for the data table containing all altitudes with 5 NM horizontal discretization. The second file with the "lowh" suffix is for the data table containing only altitudes below 5000 ft with 2.5 NM horizontal discretization.

* job.dat and joblowh.dat - contain meta-data associated with the input traffic density information: in particular, the size and extent of the input traffic density data (spatial and temporal bin definition).
* cell.mat and celllowh.mat - contain the raw traffic density information (total observed aircraft time in seconds, and maximum observed occupancy) for each temporal and spatial cell. Specific fields are:
    * Date: specific day represented as a Matlab datenum serial date number
    * Time: time of day bin
    * Cell: index into two-dimensional latitude/longitude array
    * Height: altitude/height bin
    * Category: discrete (0) or 1200-code (1) transponder
    * TotalTime: total observed aircraft time in the temporal/spatial cell [s]
    * MaxOcc: maximum instantaneous occupancy observed in the temporal/spatial cell
* Data_csv.zip - contains cell.csv and celllowh.csv, which contain the same data as cell.mat and celllowh.mat but in a text format. These files are provided in case the user does not wish to use Matlab to access the traffic density data. However, functionality for interacting with these files is not provided.
* cellAirspace.mat and cellAirspacelowh.mat - define the proportion of each cell associated with each airspace class: A, B, C, D, and O (O indicates Other which includes E and G airspace classes). These data files are generated using the getCellAirspace script in the Utilities directory, using the airspace-B-C-D-24-Oct-2019.mat data file.
* airspace-B-C-D-24-Oct-2019.mat - defines airspace classes using standard [FAA information](https://www.faa.gov/air_traffic/flight_info/aeronav/aero_data/NASR_Subscription/). The software for processing the FAA data into this file is currently in the process of being made open source, and will be [here](https://github.com/Airspace-Encounter-Models/em-core/tree/master/matlab/utilities-1stparty) when complete.
* APT.mat - defines airport information given standard [FAA information](https://www.faa.gov/air_traffic/flight_info/aeronav/aero_data/NASR_Subscription/). This data file is generated using the getAPTinfo function in the Utilities directory.
* cellcoverage.mat and cellcoveragelowh.mat - the estimated radar coverage fraction for each three-dimensional cell: latitude, longitude, altitude (1 indicates full coverage, 0 none).
* globe.mat - terrain elevation data from NOAA Globe (in meters). This data file is generated using the loadSaveTerrain function in the Utilities directory.
* cor_v2p1.txt and uncor_v2p1.txt - correlated and uncorrelated encounter model data files, respectively. See also [this repository](https://github.com/Airspace-Encounter-Models/em-model-manned-bayes) on the public GitHub for additional description and documentation.m

**Note:** Users may have their own density data that they wish to process using the Traffic Density Tool. They can do this by regenerating `cell.mat` with their own data. Users will also need to change `jobdata.mat`, `cellAirspace.mat`, and `cellcoverage.mat` to reflect the discretization of their data. `cellAirspace.mat` can be regenerated by rerunning `getCellAirspace.m` in the Utilities folder. When running, they will also need to set the TrafficDensity object's `area` property to reflect the appropriate `LatitudeLimit` and `LongitudeLimit` for their data.

## <a name="diststatement"></a> Distribution Statement
DISTRIBUTION STATEMENT A. Approved for public release. Distribution is unlimited.

This material is based upon work supported by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration under Air Force Contract No. FA8702-15-D-0001. Any opinions, findings, conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.

© 2019-2023 Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Delivered to the U.S. Government with Unlimited Rights, as defined in DFARS Part 252.227-7013 or 7014 (Feb 2014). Notwithstanding any copyright notice, U.S. Government rights in this work are defined by DFARS 252.227-7013 or DFARS 252.227-7014 as detailed above. Use of this work other than as specifically authorized by the U.S. Government may violate any copyrights that exist in this work.
